* Note: all lines between records which start with '*' are comments and
* are ignored.
*
* Each line from this file is shown as a tip-of-the-day at random when a player
* logs in.
*
* Game-specific tips
The website has a graphical world map at http://empiremud.net/map-viewer/
You can see a list of what's changed recently at http://empiremud.net/patch-notes/
*
* General tips
You can always ask for help on the /newbie channel.
Items you leave on your claimed land will automatically be stored in your empire.
Items that are left on the ground will disappear over time.
If an item gets auto-stored, you'll have to build the right building to retrieve it.
You can check what's stored in your empire from anywhere using 'einventory'.
You find a list of territory outside your cities by typing 'territory'.
You can use the 'territory' command to search for any type of building or crop you own.
You can find out if cities, adventures or starting locations are near you with 'nearby'.
You can change how big a map you see using 'mapsize'.
You can have more than one of your characters in the same empire, if your account is set up correctly.
You can see who owns what on the map by turning on 'toggle political'.
You can see which buildings are still under construction using 'toggle informative'.
You can see which mines are depleted using 'toggle informative'.
You can see which buildings need maintenance using 'toggle informative'.
Lots of useful preferences are found on the 'toggle' command.
You can knock enemies out instead of killing them using 'toggle autokill'.
You can reduce the spam from chores like chopping by typing 'toggle action-spam'.
If you're not riding or on a road, there's a small delay each time you move.
You can only get two skills all the way to 100; these determine your class.
It's possible to gain skill levels even when you're out of daily skill points. The rate is just lower.
With the Workforce ability, you can give your citizens chores.
Your Workforce will only work a chore if you don't already have too much of the resource it produces.
Your Workforce will only work within 20 tiles of each citizen's home.
If an empire is Distrustful, its guards and towers will attack anyone who isn't at peace with them.
Highwaymen don't spawn on claimed land.
Build yourself a nice burial site so you'll have somewhere closer to respawn when you die.
You can only respawn at your preferred tomb if you died on the same continent.
If you have a hestian trinket, you can teleport back to your home from anywhere.
You can fill a trench faster by pouring out your canteen.
Haste potions make most chores go twice as fast.
You can forge faster using a superior hammer.
You can make bricks faster at a Potter's Hut than at a campfire.
You can make a simple cooking fire by lighting a tree or log.
You can tan skins anywhere, but it's faster at the Tannery.
If you're in a canoe, sharks and crocodiles may ignore you.
You can only burn down buildings if you're at war with the owner.
You can only go to war with empires that are currently online.
Your Workforce will only work on tiles you have claimed.
You can learn Natural Magic at a stone henge.
You can study High Sorcery in any tower of sorcery.
You can learn Stealth in the tavern.
You can establish peace with an empire by typing 'diplomacy peace <empire>'.
You can start trade relations with an empire by typing 'diplomacy trade <empire>'.
You can request an end to a war with 'diplomacy peace <empire>'.
If you have trade relations with another empire, you can retrieve your empire's resources from their storage buildings.
The only thing that can get past enchanted walls is Earthmeld.
Earthmeld won't let you cross a river -- or a moat.
You can use 'mark' to measure distances on the map.
Moving at a diagonal is actually slightly further and costs more move points.
You can use 'home' to set a house as your own, and can teleport back with a hestian trinket.
You can use 'tomb' to set your burial place so you'll respawn there.
You can see recent empire logs with the 'elog' command.
You can set up trade using the 'import' and 'export' commands.
You get better exchange rates with empires that you have treaties with.
You can type 'toggle scrolling' to get rid of the paged text display.
You can level Trade all the way to 20 by using the level 0 Cooking and Primitive Crafts abilities, before buying any new abilities.
You can level Survival all the way to 10 using the Scavenging ability, before buying any new abilities.
If you find some channels hard to see, try using 'recolor'.
All resources run out eventually. Read more with 'help depletion'.
Try looking at items to see what they do.
If you're not sure what a symbol on the map means, try 'help legend'.
You can craft more than one item in a row using 'craft <number> <item>'. This also works with forge and sew.
Some adventures don't show up on 'nearby'.
If you come across an adventure, use the 'adventure' command to find out its level and requirements.
You can 'consider' enemies to see how hard they'd be.
Gear makes up a significant portion of your level after level 100.
Type 'keep' to keep yourself from dropping certain items with 'drop all'.
Some items are marked (boe), or bind-on-equip. Once you use them, you can't give them away.
You'll need an ability like All-Terrain Riding or Dragonriding to use a flying mount.
You can hold a small weapon in your off-hand, but you need Dual Wield to fight with it.
You can use 'alternate' to quickly switch between your characters.
Type 'portal -all' to see a list of public portals.
You can see where your citizens are working with 'workforce where'.
If the periodic action messages are too spammy, type 'toggle action-spam'.
Type 'elog' to see a list of recent empire events.
You can use the 'eedit' command to configure your empire.
Type 'cooldowns' to see how long until your abilities are available.
Players with less than 24 hours of playtime can't be attacked by other players, unless they are hostile.
You get a class when two skills hit level 76, but won't get class abilities until you hit skill level 100.
You can identify items to see how good they are, or which is better.
To identify an item in your inventory when you're wearing something with the same name, try 'id 1.item'.
You can create new slash-channels with /join.
Your Workforce and other NPCs will stop spawning if nobody logs in for 2 weeks.
Once you build a city, you can name your island with the 'customize' command.
You can see members of your empire with the 'roster' command.
This game supports MSDP, which some MUD clients use to display information on your screen.
Clothing can change how you look to others in the room.
If a player is annoying you, the 'ignore' command can solve the problem.
You can use 'alt import' to copy settings from your other characters.
Craft a canoe to get off the newbie island. You can look at it to see how to use it.
You can only steal from empires whose members are online.
Some mobs will pursue you if you flee from them. Get far enough away or lose them in a river.
Pursuing mobs will chase you down even if you go inside a building.
You can gain reputation with factions in order to unlock more quests and rewards.
You can do any 5 daily quests per day. Most of these quests repeat every day.
Dismantle your mines before the end of the year. That's when mountains refresh with new ore.
You can use 'build info', 'craft info', etc. to see what's required to make something.
If you flee from a mob, it will heal very quickly.
Commands like /history, tellhistory, and sayhistory will tell you what you just missed.
You can equip a pack or satchel to increase your inventory size.
The 'meters' command will show you how much damage you're dealing/taking.
You can find out where to store an item by identifying it. Items without regular storage may go in the warehouse.
Some recipes use generic components, which look like (lumber). Many different types of lumber can be used for this.
You can morph faster, at an additional cost, by typing 'fastmorph'.
Forests will regrow faster if they have more forest tiles around them.
Type 'estats' to get quick info about your empire, or another.
If you don't maintain your buildings, they will fall into ruin.
Workforce always uses items you have the most of first.
You can use 'fmessages' to turn off spammy combat text.
You can use 'fprompt' to set a different prompt for combat.
You can write your own books at the library.
You can have more than one mount, but you have to switch them at a stable.
You can abbreviate most things include commands and names.
If you've typed too many commands and are waiting for them to happen, you can use + to insert a command at the front of the list.
If you've typed too many commands and are waiting for them to happen, you can type -- to clear them all out of the queue.
The only way to remove seeded fields is with Devastation Ritual.
You can't use your tomb to respawn if it's on fire.
You can turn off workforce for a tile or building by typing 'workforce no-work'.
You can use 'cede' to transfer land ownership to someone else.
You can't gain experience from using abilities on mobs that are way below your level.
You can summon your friends to help you with an adventure using 'adventure summon'.
You can use the 'alias' command to make handy shortcuts.
If it's dark, you usually can't see mobs or items in the room with you.
If you think someone is earthmelded beneath you, try using search or dig.
Some cooked foods give you attribute buffs when you eat them.
Sleeping causes your health, moves, and mana to refresh in one minute (or faster if you're in a bedroom).
If mining doesn't pan out, try panning for gold.
If you 'toggle autorecall', you'll appear at your home (or tomb) if you're logged out for an hour.
Sick of being told you can't go there while mounted? Try 'toggle autodismount'.
You can irrigate the desert by digging trenches next to your rivers.
Being hungry or thirsty will slow down activities like chopping and sailing.
$~
