(lib/text/info)
[Note: Further information can be gained on the capitalized words by using the
HELP command]

   Welcome to EmpireMUD. When entering the game world you will start inside of
a Tower of Souls and given a chance at this point to use the 'transport' com-
mand to move from tower to tower until you like what you see around you. Of
course the first thing you will notice is that instead of being confronted with
a simple room description, you are in fact looking at a ASCII character map
that depicts the land around you. Here are some of the symbols and what they
mean on the map:

   .... Fields              &g^^^^&0 Forest                   &c~~~~&0 River
   <oo> You/other players   &Go&Y^^&Go&0 Apple trees          &g.&0TT&g.&0 Guard Tower

   See other map symbols on HELP MAP

   You can type SCORE to see a sheet of information about your character, with
your name, play time, and skills. It also shows your health, moves, and mana in
the form of &gcurrent&0/&gmax&0/+&gregen&0/5s (amount per 5 seconds).

Here are some starting commands you will want to know from the get go:
   EQUIPMENT (eq)   INVENTORY (i)   SKILLS
   SEW              CRAFT           TOGGLE
   DIG              CHOP            SKIN
   SCRAPE           HARVEST         PICK
   BUILD            /NEWBIE

   The above commands are essential to start with -- it is actually how you
will gain some of your starting equipment. To give an example we will do a step
by step guide to making your first handaxe:

   1. First begin to DIG. If it says that you cannot dig then move around until
      you can. Stay away from water, though, as you want rocks rather than clay.
   2. When you see the message "You pull a rock from the ground!", you've got
      one. You need two rocks, but if you manage to find a flint, you can
      CRAFT a flint set (see LIGHT). You can type STOP to stop digging.
   3. After you have gotten your second rock, WIELD one of them and CHIP the
      other rock till it splits open.
   4. Chip the already-chipped rock again.
   5. Now you have your first tool, a handaxe!

   After fashioning your starting handaxe you can use it. REMOVE the rock in
your hand and then WIELD the handaxe. This will make it easier to slay animals
and skin their corpses. You can TAN skin into leather and then SEW the leather
into equipment and clothing. You can also sew using wool (SHEAR) or cotton
(HARVEST) that you WEAVE into cloth.

   Equipment is very important and while you may find solace in having your
trusty handaxe, it may not be enough for the trials ahead and thus you will
need to take on the task of improving your equipment. As another example we
will do a step by step guide to crafting your first wood-chopping axe:

   1. Find yourself a forest or a nearby tree of some sort.
   2. GATHER sticks in the forest. You only need one; then type STOP.
   3. CRAFT a handle using one of the sticks. You'll need to WIELD your handaxe
      for this, because it's sharp.
   4. REMOVE your handaxe.
   5. Lastly, CRAFT a stone axe with the handaxe and handle you now have a real
      axe!

   At one time or another, you'll see the message "You are hungry". This means
that it's time to find something edible before too long. People don't starve
to death in this world, so have no fear. However, when you are hungry, you do
not build up lost energy, so eventually you'll be unable to do anything but sit
around and feel sorry for yourself until someone comes by. Then, you can only
hope that it's a benevolent person, rather than a greedy thief or a warrior
lusting for blood. You can pick fruits, go spear-fishing, butcher corpses, or
harvest corn for food. You may also be thirsty; try "drink river" from a land
tile that's next to a river.

   If you find it difficult to navigate the map, you may want to buy the
Navigation ability, from the Survival skill. It will give you coordinates for
each location. When you buy this ability, your map may rotate. That means your
character didn't know which way was actually North until now.

Additional Utilities:
  TOGGLE - Lets you turn on and off various channels, modes, and preferences.
    - toggle political: shows ownership on the map
    - toggle informative: shows building status as map colors
  MAPSIZE - Change the size of your game map.
  NEARBY - See cities, adventures, and starting locations near you.
  ADVENTURE - Shows information about any adventure you come across.
  CONSIDER - Tells you how hard an enemy will be to fight.
  IDENTIFY - Tells you how good an item is, and where it's stored.

   To conclude this guide, it is always a good idea to simply ask if you do
not know how to do something. Really a common question it seems is, "What
do I use to forge equipment with, I don't have a hammer to use." The answer
is rather simple too: a rock. Hopefully you enjoyed reading this info guide
as much as I enjoyed writing it and if there is ever a doubt in your mind
on what to do, DON'T PANIC! There is almost always someone around willing
to lend a helping hand.

You can find more information on HELP GETTING STARTED.

Quick-start guides:
* Founding an empire: HELP EMPIRE GUIDE
* Building your first house: HELP HOUSING GUIDE
* Mining and forging: HELP IRON GUIDE
* Vampires: HELP VAMPIRE GUIDE

See also: POLICY, HELP CRAFT, HELP FORGE, HELP SEW, HELP BUILD, HELP EEDIT
